Hello everyone. If you have used clot
code then you must have seen this
message usage limit reached. Now there
is no fixed time when it will come but
depending on your usage it may appear
any time. It could be the time when you
are halfway through your document or it
could be when you are writing your code
and or you are researching something. So
you will notice that your session ends
and you are told to come back later. So
this thing is not a random glitch. This
is the point which you need to
understand. This is a very specific
calculation which is based on how clock
has to do every time you hit send and
it's not just a counter which is running
behind the scenes that after five
message it has to show your show you the
message that come back later. This is
not the thing everything depends on how
you are using the system and how you are
sending your messages. Now in order to
understand this thing like why it is
happening, how it works, why this error
is appearing and what all things you
should do to get rid of this error or at
least delay this error for some time. So
let's get started and first understand
little bit more about it and then we
will see 10 tips to resolve this error.
Okay, let's understand what is this
token because token is that one thing
which is making all these charges for
us. You can consider token as a sequence
of characters or in a nutshell you can
consider one word is like a token and
every token is the one which incurs the
cost whether we are sending it or
whether we are receiving a message from
an LLM and every time you are sending a
message claude rereads the entire
conversation from the beginning. So you
will have one message then you will get
the corresponding reply you will send
another message you will get another
reply the third time when you are
sending a message or let's say the nth
time the message will contain everything
whatever has happened in the past in
that session. So it means that although
your third message is very short but
still you will end up with lot many
charges or the token usage and the
reason why it is happening is because it
is compounding rather than simply adding
it to it. So it compounds to whatever we
have. So let's say that you have very
first message which is taking 100
tokens. Then there are chances that your
third or the fourth message will take
close to 7,000 tokens. There is a
possibility and it totally depends on
how long your response was, how long the
message you sent and what all tools and
everything you are using here. But apart
from these messages, there are few more
things which get added to this
particular token usage. So as you can
see on my screen cloud MD MCP tool
files. So MCP server is one of the key
contributors. So we know that whenever
we are defining our MCP server we do def
we define some tools in it. So all the
tools definition contributes to this
particular token usage as well. So that
is the reason we say that whenever you
want to define MCP you have to be very
careful. You cannot define MCP for every
small thing irrespective of whether you
are using that functionality or not.
Apart from MCP, you do have uh system
prompts which are contributing. You do
have reference files. So let's say you
are passing in some files with your
prompt. Then those will also be
considered as a a token usage. Whatever
the text you are having inside that
everything is totally dependent on that.
Now one thing uh I want to highlight
here is whenever you are passing any
context or any file you have to be very
mindful of what you are passing. So
let's say you are working on a repo you
cannot pass in the whole repo for the
context just decide click call and then
see what all things you actually need.
So for this the very first step I want
to share with you is
to start the fresh conversation. So
every time whenever you are using clot
code it is recommended to start the
fresh conversation every time whenever
it is possible and for that you can
either go with the clear switch or you
can go with the compact. So when you are
saying clear switch or when you're using
clear it means you are asking to clear
everything whatever is in that session
and basically you're restarting
everything from fresh. If you can't use
clear switch, you can also restart your
terminal and that is also the same
thing. Third thing is the compact
switch. I will talk a little bit more
about it later. But let's keep in mind
that compact is to compress your
messages which you have already
consumed or you have already processed.
So that these are three switches which
can help you very much to start your
very first conversation. Another tip to
reduce token is
about the MCP server. Like I said, it is
one of the most prominent factor which
can increase your token usage. So a tip
here is to disconnect your MCP servers
when you are actually not using it.
Don't try to use the server or don't try
to keep it running basically
because whenever you are running the
server whenever this is used by the
cloud code it is going to consume all
the tokens depending on whatever you
have defined in your MCP server as a
tool. So tool definition is one of the
key reason why you should be very
careful what all things you want to
expose as a tool and what all should not
be. And here on the screen you can see
let's say you have 100 tools defined in
a server then those 100 definitions will
be sent every time along with every
prompt. So it's not that it is injected
once and you are done. No the same
information is traveling to and fro
every time whenever you are sending a
message. So make sure that you are
reviewing your servers and you are
starting on each session only when it is
required and try to disconnect it if you
are not using them anymore. Let's move
on to the another tip. Okay. So this I
believe the most common mistake which we
used to do that we don't monitor what
our agent or the clot code or any LLM is
doing. And this is a very common case
when we are working on a huge
applications and when you are doing some
deep research in that case what we do is
we will give the prompt and then we will
just walk away from there. Either we
will go and grab our coffee, we will go
for a quick walk but you will not sit in
front of the system because we know that
anyways it is going to take a lot of a
lot much of time. So don't repeat that
mistake when LLM is working for you.
It's your responsibility to monitor what
it is doing because there are very high
chances that depending on your prompt or
the data you are using claude stuck
inside the loop. It is doing the same
action and again and again. It is doing
the same fix, same incorrect fix again
and again or it could be reading the
same file again and again and giving the
incorrect output. Basically it knows
that this is the wrong output but it is
still trying in the same fashion. So
never ever do this thing here. So the
tip here is to as soon as you see that
things are repeating stop the process
immediately and then restart it with the
f more focused prompt. So this will help
you to reduce tokens.
Let's move on to the next one.
Here we have the tip number four and it
is related to the cloud empty file. So
if you don't don't know what this
cloudMD file is, I would recommend you
to check out my very first video in this
series where I have explained everything
about cloud file, how you can create it,
why we should use it. Now point here is
it is always good to use it but what all
things you are mentioning in that is the
most important part. Whenever we are
defining the claude MD file try to keep
it at the minimum. Try to keep it under
200 lines. Don't dump every single rule
in your cloud file because that is the
file which is traveling with your every
single prompt whenever you are uh
talking with your claude. And you can
define the few things which you I can
highlight which you can define is your
technology stack like which programming
language which version what all packages
what are the common coding conventions
what all rules do you want to follow if
you have any GitHub actions you want to
perform then you can do it there if you
want to define some rules around your
test cases that whenever a new
functionality is added make sure to add
the test case and run it. So those all
things you can push in over there. So
these are the things which you can
actually dump inside this file.
But point here is you should not dump
your conversation history there. Claw MD
file is meant for the decisions not for
the conversation
saving or retaining your conversations.
And whenever we are dealing with file
keep in mind that whatever is written
inside that file is equally applicable
for all the prompts which are going from
the system. You cannot filter it that if
prompt is this then use this part of the
cloudfire or this part this section of
the cloud file that cannot be done. So
whatever you are writing there make sure
that it is equally applicable for all
the prompts and it is not having any
conditional thing that use this or don't
use this. So that will keep your file
clean as well as lean. And this is this
was my tip number four.
Let's move on to the tip number five. So
this is very important when you are
working on su agent software engineering
agents and what happens is whenever we
want to give context we used to overload
the LLM with all the possible context
with a fear that we should not miss
anything. So don't do that particular
mistake over here. For example, you want
to fix some bug in your repo. So instead
of giving the whole rapper, it is always
recommended to point to the specific
files or a file which is actually used
in order to fix that bug and you can use
it at the rate file name. So if you're
using at the rate file name, clot code
would go and hit directly to that file
instead of scanning that entire repo
which is having hundreds or even 500s of
files. So make sure that you are not
giving this thing and the same thing is
applicable for the documents as well. So
let's say you want to query or extract
information from your document which is
like a 200 pages long PDF. Now we know
that our information may be in initial
five pages. Then in that case don't give
all the 100 or 200 pages. Just extract
those five pages. Just extract the
content out of it and pass it as a
reference because giving over context is
definitely a very very harmful thing and
it introduces the lost in the middle
problem. So I hope you must have heard
about this lost in the middle. So what
it does is whenever you are having
whenever you are on context heavy
side LLM may pick information from the
top from the end but it may lose
something in between because your
context was extremely large that it can
accommodate everything. So that is the
main reason you should always be precise
when you are defining your context.
Let's move on to the next tip. Ah here
we have two different tips six and
seven. The very first one here is about
the monitoring.
Here you can see the cost. So whenever
you are working with LLMs and especially
when you have taken your personal
subscriptions like me then you should be
very careful. You should keep track of
what you are doing, how much usage you
are having. So the very first switch
here is the cost. You can use this cost
switch and it will tell you actual token
usage and the estimated spend for that
particular session. Then you have the
context. So it will reveal you context
switch can reveal you what all things
are going as a context. So it will give
a pretty much good idea that what all
useful things are going on and what all
useless things are going on. So you can
remove it and start your session again.
We do have the compact. So this
particular uh switch I believe is very
useful because it compacts the
conversation and if you don't know let
me add a little bit more information
here. So there is a 5 minute caching
system. So whenever you are talking with
clot code it will try to cache last 5
minutes of your conversation in a cache
and let's say you are taking a long
breaks or the pauses in between your
work you are going somewhere and coming
back and then continuing in the same
session then it is definitely going to
cost you more because now there is
nothing in its cash and it is going to
take entire conversation of that session
as a
uh as a context in order to execute your
request. So whenever you feel like
taking a break more than 5 minutes then
try to clear your session and restart
your work. That is one thing. Another
important thing here is the batching. So
instead of sending five different
messages try to combine them into one
and then share it. So your instruction
or the prompt should be clear enough to
execute that entire flow. So in that
case whatever the basic tools or the
default tools the system prompt we are
talking about everything will go just
once instead of five different times for
the same prompt. So this is again a very
useful tip and you should definitely
follow it. Let's move on to my last
three tips.
Now we know that any LLM which you're
using is set up with a default model and
same is the case with clot code as well.
Now it's not necessary that you go with
the default model. You can definitely go
and choose the one which is very well
working for you. So let's say opus. I
cannot go and use opus for my routine or
the basic questions which I am asking or
talking with the clot code because opus
is meant for deep research and planning
and when I'm doing general chitchat I
don't think I need to use opus and waste
my tokens. to decide, think and then
take an action like which model I should
go for and definitely you can choose the
model using the slashmodel and it will
list down all the models as well for
you. Second thing is the modes. So again
if you're new to this different modes
which we can use in cloud mode check out
my video there and in this mo in this
video I'm highlighting only the plan
mode thinking that you are working on
some case study or you are planning to
create some web application or the
desktop application or any sort of
application basically. So whenever we
are dealing or building with these
applications definitely one prompt can
never ever suffice. we used to talk to
and fro multiple times with the this
clot code to make our solution perfect.
So in that case whenever you feel that I
need to do multiple conversation to and
fro and it's more of a coordinated
fashion then never ever go with ask
mode. It is always recommended to go
with the plan mode because when you're
setting up everything in the plan mode
then claw code will first list down the
plan what it is going to do instead of
actually executing it. So let's say
something is wrong, you don't want that
functionality in your app, then it is
always good to update the plan mode
rather than changing the entire
implementation which was done earlier.
So that is the main benefit of using the
plan mode and it will definitely save
lot much of tokens for you. Again here I
can see that it is saying you can add
this particular rule to your cloud mode
that whenever the confidence level is
greater than 95% then only go ahead and
execute that action for user. Third
thing is about the agent and this is
very useful when you are in multi- aent
environment. Let's say you have created
lot many agents then every agent will
take the entire thing as a context. So
design your agentic flow very very
keenly. You should not necessarily
define multiple agents for the sake of
designing them. It may cost you lot more
than doing everything with single agent.
So just keep that in mind. I believe I
am done. And here is the summary of what
you should do. Here you can see uh
number eight. So you can go with haiku.
If it doesn't work, go with sonet and
opus definitely should be your very last
option if you are looking forward for
saving that cost. So I hope you enjoyed
these tips and do share me in comments
if you have any more tips which I have
not covered. Thanks for watching.